MovR is a toy ride sharing application  created to demonstrate and teach
CockroachDB.
You'll be using MovR throughout the lessons and
labs in this course.
Let's take a look at how to access  MovR in your browser and how to use
the application UI.
The MovR application runs on a local web server.
When you first start the course, MovR  provides only limited functionality: the
ability to view basic  information about the vehicles.
As the labs progress, you'll be adding  additional functionality: more detailed
vehicle information such as location history,
the ability for users to log in and create rides, and so on.
Let's take a tour of MovR in its final state.
When you first visit the application,  you'll be prompted to sign in.
If you don't have an account, you can create one.
Once you're logged in, you'll be redirected  to the vehicles page, which shows
the first 20 vehicles in the database.
One of the features you'll be adding as  part of the labs is the ability to add
a new vehicle to the list.
If you click a vehicle's "see vehicle"  button, you'll go to the vehicle's
detail page, showing additional  information about that vehicle.
Another feature you'll add is  the ability to track a vehicle's
location over time.
Notice that the vehicle is shown as "available."
This means that the "in-use" column in  the database is "FALSE," so the user can
start a ride.
This displays the ride detail page.
From this page, you could complete the  ride, entering the final location and
battery level, but we don't want to do that yet.
Instead, we're going to view the user's rides.
This page shows all the rides this user has taken.
Completed rides are shown as inactive  and rides that are still in progress show
as active.
For active rides, we can go back  to the ride details and from here,
we can end the ride.
When you end a ride, MovR will  display a message with some
summary details about the ride.
And that's pretty much it!
Let's review.
In this course, you'll be using a  fictional ride sharing web application
called MovR.
In the labs, you'll be adding features like
user login, location tracking, and the ability to add new vehicles.