We've talked about the bar we set to be considered a basic distributed SQL database: scale, consistency
resiliency and SQL with ACID transactions. All of it native and all of it baked into
the architecture so that it happens smoothly. CockroachDB checks off every box and goes even
further. First CockroachDB only uses serializable isolation, the highest level possible. Even many
legacy SQL databases don't offer this. I don't have time to do the topic justice right now, but
this means that every transaction behaved as if it had exclusive use of the entire cluster from start
to finish. We said CockroachDB speaks SQL but not just that, it uses the open source PostgreSQL wire
protocol tapping into a mature existing ecosystem of drivers and ORMs that developers have relied
upon for years. We already said that the database should be distributed but in many cases there
are legal restrictions that require data to never leave a certain region. Let's add geo-replication, a
general term for the ability to control where your data resides in a globally distributed
cluster to that requirement. Even if there are no legal concerns, you still shouldn't need to send a
query halfway around the world when some of your nodes are sitting in a data center one city over.
CockroachDB delivers this with its features that allow users to peg data to a particular locality.
Additionally, a true distributed SQL database should be multi-cloud,
meaning it shouldn't be tied to a specific cloud provider.
Spanner might be a basic distributed SQL database but if you use it you're locked into Google Cloud.
Your database should be able to run anywhere on any combination of bare metal servers or cloud
instances from multiple providers. And to do so seamlessly CockroachDB doesn't care where it's
running. A node is a node and any node that joins a cluster will work. Finally CockroachDB provides
administration tools, both on the command line and with a graphical interface. It offers optimization
tools such as our Cost-based Query Optimizer and baked in security including user authentication,
authorization, audit logging and encryption of your data, both on disk and over the wire. There's
so much to cover we won't be able to get to all of it in this getting started course. This is what you
should expect from a true distributed SQL database and this is why people are flocking to CockroachDB.